Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be learning about how to enable the steam subsystem in unreal.
You can see here from my logs that it's all about steam it's talking about the steam subsystem all over
the place which means that we have enabled it.
I'm also going to be teaching you how to enable the most logging for certain categories so we can understand
more of what's going on under the hood in unreel.
You can see here I got the log online category with very verbose talking about the very nitty gritty
details about the online logs.
Let's dive in and see how we can enable steam for the first time.
So in this lecture we are finally going to be using the steam subsystem rather than this nesle subsystem
we've been using for testing so far.
So we're going to figure out how to actually configure it because it's a little bit of an involved process
it's a three step process you're gonna have to enable the steam plug in comp. The steam module and configure
the default engine.
Anyhow the first two are quite straightforward.
But the third one is a bit more bold.
So let's start off with the steam plug in.
You may not have noticed it but in in unreal you have a plug in system.
If you go to the edit menu and go to plugins there are a few built in plugins here that you can enable
or disable.
And one of those if we search for it is steam an online subsystem steam there are a few different seams
plug ins.
So I've just search for scene and you can see there are a few steam VR Steam Controller plug steam audio.
But the online subsystem seem is what we want.
If you check enable on that then you will see that it's asking you to restart the editor were not going
to do that just yet because we're gonna need to do it in a later step.
So next they're doing the steam plug in.
We need to enable a steam module.
Now this is if we go over in two Visual Studio and open up our plat a puzzle platform to build see us.
So our project named up Bill dotsie as you will find the public dependency module Names List.
And in this module name list we're going to have to add in one more module beyond our online subsystem
we're gonna have to add the online subsystem steam.
Let's do that online sub system steam and we are going to have to rebuild and as a result of having
included that subsystem.
Okay.
So with that rebuild going on.
We're going to set up the configuration of the default engine in it.
We go over to our diesel engine or any which is in the if we go to the root of our project we go into
config and open up diesel engines on any to text file which at the moment if we get to the bottom of
it you see that we've configured a different platform service as the no subsystem in our section called
Online subsystem.
These things are sections the ones with the square brackets around them.
So one thing we'll need to do is change that null over to being steam.
But we need to do more configuration besides the configure the module and the plug in the way we do
this is we look at the documentation which is linked against the your lecture for the online subsystem
steam is going to scroll on down to the bottom because there's a lot of instructions here that are actually
out of date that talk about having to include the SDK folder which is.
And the details which are no longer necessary.
They are all included in that plug in for you.
And here it is talking about what you need to include.
There's a few steps that it wants to add in to the engine.
And there's various reasons for it.
But if you scroll on down to the end there is the finished settings.
If you just copy all those finished settings and go into your engine any and actually replace the online
subsystem section because that is part of these finished settings and pasted in then what you're gonna
get is the following.
You can get a section called script forward slash engine game engine.
Now that is going to set up some definitions for something called a net driver.
More on that in a second.
Then we've got our online subsystem which is setting up the default subsystem to be steam.
Then we've got configuration for the online subsystem steam were basically saying enable it true and
set the dev app iita for 80 for 80 is actually the app differs for Spacewar.
It's the app the only app that you can use for free without having to be a developer who's paid 100
dollars if you pay a hundred dollars you get your own app.
And with that app you can basically use that instead of the public one you can set up things like achievements
and so on.
Now the script forward slash online subsystem steam stops steam net driver.
This is the net driver again it's talking about.
So in the top category we had defined some net driver stuff some useful net driver stuff.
And in the bottom category we are basically configuring steam to point at that net driver.
What is a net drive I hear you ask.
It's basically what allows us to not need a VPN.
Instead of making a direct IP connection it is going to connect via steam if necessary and then it will
do that with various clever steam servers in the way.
Now obviously that's quite technical and we don't have to worry about it too much because the magic
kind of goes on under the hood for us and will allow us to connect over the Internet so we're not going
to have to worry about it too much.
Basically that is the default engine configuration.
Let's go back to that plug in the menu that was asking us to restart and take the offer and get it to
restart.
Now this has as completely set up ready to be using steam in our game now to verify it.
We can't actually play across the network just yet.
We'll be able to do that in the next lecture because there's a few things we need to change about how
we create the sessions and query sessions but we can.
Check that we are using a steam properly from the locks now in order to run a game with steam.
You can't do it from within the editor it has to be outside of the end.
So if I try playing from within the editor you can see that the null subsystem is that subsystem that
gets found it needs to be outside of the editor.
So we are going to open up our shell or terminal on Mac or command prompt if you prefer and we are going
to run game with logging messages enabled and you need to have steam running and logged in in order
for this to work.
Let's run the game.
Launch it up.
We've got our logs printing out here while the game is loading because there's a lot of logs I want
to draw your attention to the fact that all these logs have a category.
We always use log temp.
But the category here is things like logs stat logs slate style log memory log world et cetera.
Now you can see our log temp message with category warning has said it's found the subsystems seem so
great.
We have indeed got steam working here.
That is fantastic news.
Now I just want to show you that we can see a bit more of the details of how steam is working now on
a Mac.
This is going to be slightly different and I'm going to give you the instructions now.
Sadly for us folk on the Mac running the puzzle platforms here in steam is a little bit more tricky
You can't simply run a standalone binary on Mac and get it to run.
You probably tried that while I was doing it and you'll have noticed that it might crash now to run
something with the steam subsystem you need to run it from within steam as a foreign application so
you need to go to her but you add game and add a non steam game as we've done before this time.
What you going to have to do is actually build your game you're gonna have to package it entirely so
you can see here I've got a build that I've done earlier with the Mac.
No.
Ed and he.
We've got an app file for puzzle platforms that's what you're going to need to point steam to.
Remember that's going to add add non steam game.
You cannot wait for the Spinney's a little bit.
And then once the spinnies have gone it won't even open up.
So you got it.
Add game again and add a non steam game.
Sometimes this happens sadly.
Then you go to your browse and one little trick is that if you can open up a terminal which I'm going
to do.
Then you can take.
You can find in Finder the puzzle platforms app that has just been built.
You got a package for Mac on your in your editor.
We're going to copy that.
Man see and then go into terminal.
Man v. it in to copy the path and then you can take the path.
Copy that and you can paste it into ad game.
Now if you paste directly into ad game.
Just copy the name for puzzle platforms which isn't really what you want so we can go ahead and open
the app now and if you that will close down the menu sadly.
But if you go to add an on Steam game again then it will have a list of games with the top one selected
being puzzled platforms and you can go ahead and add selected program now as have already done.
I'm not going to do this.
Okay so what you can do now is you can hit play from within steam and that will launch up the puzzle
platforms app ready with steam in the background and you can check out the logs as I have done now to
check out the logs.
That's another little step that you're going to have to do.
Bear with me for this.
You need to go to open up the application called console.
Now this is where logs are located.
System wide on Mac and then he need to find the entry in the left side bar that says tilde library logs
were going to expand this out and under till did library logs.
You should have a puzzle platform directory and under that directory you should have a puzzle platforms
dont lock you go and click on Puzzle platforms log.
Then in there you will have the logs that the other folks are seeing in the in a separate window on
windows so you can do all the same things using this log and starting it from within steam.
Just the build process going to take likely look.
Okay so welcome back to the p.c folk as well now.
What were going to do here is enable some verbose logging at least for the online subsystem category
so that we can see more of what steam's doing and in the challenge I'm going to challenge you to look
at those logs and set it all up for yourself.
So here in our logs you can see that we have things called categories.
They are the thing that is like log audio log render.
They tend to be prefixed with log.
We always use log temp.
But there are categories there are many of.
And then we have a large log level where here you can see after the category is either warning or its
just the default.
Or it can be things like verbose and very verbose.
Now verbose isn't showing up is only showing things that are log info at the moment.
So to enable about logging.
We need to hit our tilde key or the key underneath escape and we need to go log log online.
My system has caught up with that.
Typing it slightly wrong it needs to be log typing wrong myself log log online which is the category
we want to enable make more verbose.
Make means that there's more going to be more log messages and you can either do verbose with a capital
V or very verbose which is what I'm going to go for.
And then what happens is as you do certain actions like house and joint you are going to get more log
messages here in the log.
So a very quick challenge both for Mac and p.c to make sure that you are comfortable with the logs and
that you are getting the right sort of stuff.
Here I just challenge you to host and join with verbose logging switched on and see what you get.
Pause a video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
We're just going to do this very quickly I've got very verbose logging switched on my go to host and
have a look at my logs see what's happened.
Not very much coming out of on my log online to be honest.
I've got something coming out of both though it says listening on LAN beacon request for something and
it's also got here something about very Bobos getting billed unique idea.
Some interesting stuff like that but nothing particularly that I can make sense of that I understand
so I'm going to quit.
Out.
Back to the main menu.
As some can sometimes get frozen like this.
I'm not entirely sure why but if you go over to your logs I think it has something to do with having
scrolled around the logs so you can just hit Control see on the logs and that seems to unblock it.
Now if you go back to join and do add join menu.
That should trigger off a search for servers.
And here in there both very verbose and our warning we are getting lots of logs about what it has tried
to do.
It's got incompatible builds that it's finding that's because we've got steam war and it is trying to
remove the things that aren't our game from the list of lobbies and servers and so on and so we've got
lots of other log messages there too.
And some more of these get build unique I.D. and things like that so.
And also in a sink task is finished successfully which is probably the async task of finding sessions.
So that's just the skill a little bit of reading log messages it might take you a little bit longer
than me I've got my very trained into this.
Having read lots and lots of logged messages over the years but just go through and see what you understand
for now and I will be pointing out your eye.
Two things are important.
In later lectures.